bonnie: Hello. Sorry about that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's okay, how are you
bonnie: I'm okay. We're having a little, uh, hopefully I may not, I may have to depending on how things go jump off, we're having an infant.
bonnie: Kind of illness emergency so yeah
bonnie: Hopefully, everything's okay he's just really coughing a lot and not wanting fluids. So we're just trying to figure out what to do in the meantime, but
bonnie: We're going to see how things go. And then I definitely said, if anything, if we end up having to go to the doctor or the ER. Well, the doctors and an option, but that they'll come get me. If it seems like he's has a my husband's going to check his fever and all that good stuff.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Do you, do you want to go and just reschedule for next week and take care of the baby.
bonnie: Oh, it's okay. Let's see how he responds, my husband's just got home, so he's gonna bring him in and just try to give him some more milk and see if he'll take that and kind of, I don't know if he's just aggravated also because he's in the car and he's not feeling well.
bonnie: So we're I think it's okay to play it by ear and see how he goes and then if I have to jump off all and a little early.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, that's fine, that's fine, either. Which way.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Are you no
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: No, don't you worry about it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, babies come first, they are. Yeah.
bonnie: Yeah, our other one was just getting over being sick and now the other one that sounds like is having a hard time so yeah well one has it then. Luckily, I've been okay I thought I was going to get sick, the other day, but I've kind of bypass it, I think. So, so far it's been okay
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It goes around
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's for sure.
bonnie: Yeah, that's for sure. So um can I, can I just my husband's calling me. Can I just yeah can and then
Sorry. Yep.
bonnie: Hello.
bonnie: That's what I thought I saw he called me by accident.
And I think that's what happened.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
bonnie: Just want to make sure it wasn't an emergency, although he can knock on our door. Um, yeah. Thanks again. Okay. Otherwise, I'm
bonnie: A LITTLE ROUGH. This week I think emotional regulation wise, just because my husband and I have been having just some difficulties with parenting, you know, and different parenting styles.
bonnie: Just, I realized to, like, you know, certainly certain dynamics, like I've been thinking, well, first of all, I want to tell you things that worked this week, so definitely the stop sign. There were two moments when
bonnie: I was having I haven't had too much physical anxiety recently over like bodily things because I feel like I think when I stay on track with like my eating goals.
bonnie: You know, keeping like everything kind of keeping my own bat like boundaries around like you know not over eating, not having too much alcohol exercising like keeping everything on track. Then I have it I feel more confident that the Nothing's wrong. Like, I'm okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
bonnie: So there were only two times I noticed some anxiety coming up and I did the read the stop sign and that worked really well. That was really effective and just
bonnie: You know visually seeing the stop sign, in my mind, and just saying we can't go here and I was able to kind of, and it wasn't SeVEre. SeVEre. Like, I wasn't in a full
bonnie: Tumble so maybe that helped her that was easier, but it did help me. I was able to kind of pull it back, and then I have been trying to make more time I remembered after we talked. I have a mindfulness app and I downloaded a bunch of
bonnie: Kind of guided meditations, a while ago and I just haven't really been listening to it or using it. And so I've been trying to do that at night.
bonnie: When I can remember just even short ones. And I think that's helped a bit, just in just creating that space and kind of that. Pause
bonnie: Because where I feel like I still have, you know, emotion brain issues is I realized like, sometimes, you know, and naturally I think my partner and I we trigger each other's childhood stuff sometimes and
bonnie: There are certain things I'm sensitive to that I realized that
bonnie: And you know that I just start reacting. I just start yelling back or I start saying things. I don't want to be saying, you know, and I, I know all the things I shouldn't be doing.
bonnie: You know, or like I know that's a time like that. I thought I kept thinking of what you were saying last time about totaling up and how I have a really hard time doing that in the moment.
bonnie: And I was able to kind of think about it a lot. This weekend because we kind of had a hard time on Sunday, and then we a few other spots. This week, and I realized that
bonnie: I think I still have some trauma responses to, you know, I think I mentioned how my dad was he was never physically abusive, but he was emotionally. I would say abusive in terms of like, you know, his anger like
bonnie: He would yeah you know his yelling would be just out of control. And he just would, it would be independent of this location. You know, we could be in public. We could be, you know,
bonnie: Right. It just was really
bonnie: Unsettling and I think
bonnie: I think a few things like because I noticed that I have kind of two responses I either kind of immediately go into
bonnie: Kind of attack mode and fight. I was thinking fight, flight, or freeze, you know, and I noticed I tend to go into like fight mode, very quickly.
bonnie: And I think part of that was because like when I was growing up, my mother was very passive and she never challenged. My dad and I now looking back, I realized I think
bonnie: You know she was trying not to escalate the situation. But to me, it kind of looked like she wasn't standing up for me or wasn't like, you know, like he's clearly out of control like somebody like he's like
bonnie: But it's still something you're the adult. So, you know, like, and
bonnie: As an adult with kids and I understand, like, so I'm really sensitive to, you know, for example, like if
bonnie: Yelling happens you know i'm very quick to like attack and, you know, like I just, it's like that filter disappears between thinking, you know, the
bonnie: Thinking about what I'm saying. And then we kind of my husband and I both kind of tend to then I attacked and he's attacked and I attacked and we're just saying things that aren't helpful and
Yeah.
bonnie: And it's really frustrating. I think kids definitely add another layer to the level of stress and
bonnie: Kind of just bringing into, you know, I'm so much more sensitive to not doing what my parents did in terms of parenting and I'm just so like aware of it, almost. I feel like to you know where I'm just like, you know, it makes. I'm very sensitized to it. I guess is what I'm trying to say. And
bonnie: Even how we interact as a couple. Like, because I know how it should be. Yeah. And I know when not falling short. And when he's falling short and
bonnie: And so, um, it's just tough like my I know situ. I know I'm not making situations better when I'm reactive and I have a really hard time and I think
bonnie: anger toward my dad is coming out. I think that is what I mean. And I know it after the fact, like, you know, because I'll tend to go into
bonnie: Reactive, you know, kind of attacking you know i'll say things. I don't mean I'll yell or whatever and then
bonnie: I go immediately into kind of a state of like helpless hopeless where I'm like this will never get better. Like, I don't know, you know and and and
bonnie: I it's both states are really uncomfortable and unpleasant to be in. And you know, I just like I realized that my own reactivity doesn't help the situation, it just kind of amplifies, you know, it just ends up ratcheting up
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah yeah
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So what happens when
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You go into war, you're pulling
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, you can go
bonnie: Yeah, exactly.
bonnie: And I can see it, but I can't stop it. And that's where I realized like, I could probably use some tools there, you know, just in my own reactivity. I mean, it's kind of like very similar to
bonnie: In the sense. Like when my anxiety really takes over and I haven't stopped it or challenged it in time, you know, and it's no balls. It just really becomes like you know uncontrollable or feels very
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Controllable
bonnie: And it's kind of like the same thing. Like, I, I, I am not I wouldn't say quick to anger, but like if my buttons are pressed. I think I can.
bonnie: You know,
bonnie: React a certain way.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So the idea is to change those buttons.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, right. And really, you can actually utilize your stop sign in this scenario as well.
bonnie: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know when you start feeling, you know that defensiveness coming up.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And feel the anger coming up and the frustration and you want to respond.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's not response. It's reaction.
bonnie: You want to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To react, you know, ask yourself, what do you want to get out of this.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, basic question, what is it I want to get out of this, what direction do I want this to go to war or, you know, do I want to resolution.
bonnie: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and really kind of again turtle up and ask yourself those questions.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And pay attention when they're first starting to bubble and they're very big. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Don't wait until they get to the
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Point where
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know you're on the attack mode or on the defense mode in it.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, I think.
bonnie: Mm hmm.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Sorry, going to be happier. Do you want to be right.
bonnie: Right. Yeah. Yeah. And I do. I think where it's especially tough for me is like, you know, having kind of the education and the background and knowledge. I feel like I do have a knowledge of what's right.
bonnie: And that can be kind of tricky. That's kind of like mo like I know how things should it be going
bonnie: And but it's not all, it's not exactly helpful, especially because like if I do have anything useful to say
bonnie: Definitely. He's not hearing me in that moment, for sure.
bonnie: Know,
bonnie: The minute that the walls are up and the defenses are up there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Either side is not hearing anything, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that's a piece of it and you know you have to know that above everything else you're human.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and you're a person
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know, we still need tools to
bonnie: We need to learn how to react or respond. You know what I mean. Yeah.
bonnie: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It doesn't matter what
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What myself. Yeah, I think I judge myself pretty harshly for that like when I think about, you know, things I tell clients and like do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I do. I kind of keep on more like self criticism I think around it.
bonnie: You know, especially because I see myself not choosing the right you know or not the right but the more optimal path and it's just kind of like all that stuff goes out the window when my emotion brain is like activated. It's like there's no logic. It's just like
bonnie: Reacting before that, I think the hardest part. And all of this and with anxiety to or all of it. I think around the motion brain is even getting that pause in there.
bonnie: To like even stop and think about it. And I guess that's what you're saying about the stop signs like just even getting that moment in there to even think about what's going on, rather than just like responding is is really tough for me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, it's, it's tough for a lot of people, you know, and it was tough for me for a long time to and every once in a while it's still tough.
bonnie: You know, to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To stop and breathe and you know really ask yourself, what do you want to get out of us right now we want to go to war.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you want a resolution, you know, and what does that really look like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And, you know, be able to stop for a second.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And ask yourself those questions and helps you and gives you the time to re evaluate your side of things and how can you, how can you present it in a manner that he's going to hear
bonnie: Yeah, and that's the tough part two, because like sometimes like I think I'm just, it's just occurring to me now as I'm kind of thinking about things like
bonnie: That moment is not the time to even do it like, there can be no resolution, I think in a moment where he's hijacked I'm hijacked kind of by, you know, the emotion brain it's like
bonnie: There's no, you know, I try to have instant resolution and in those moments like really, I think,
bonnie: The only thing that can be done is taking a break or taking space or de escalating or just making
bonnie: You know, we're trying to work together on like fair fighting rules I printed some things out to talk about and like you know just how we can kind of maybe work on some of those things and just at least have some ground rules.
bonnie: And I think that's one of them is like we can't talk about anything when we're already activated. It's just not there's, it's not, you know, and I have noticed, like the times that
bonnie: Because I do think, you know, like my dad coins and like me okay like me to, you know, he has some emotional dysregulation issues. You know, I think it
bonnie: Is hard, you know, and maybe we both grew up that way, I guess.
bonnie: in similar ways we definitely have some common ground and some of our life experience. So it makes sense, but
bonnie: You know, I think the hard part is like, you know, I do know that the times I'm able to hold my ground and stay calm. It's the hardest thing for me when I'm feeling a lot of reactions inside and I'm just kind of white knuckling it and just holding my ground trying to stay calm.
bonnie: I do notice that even though it's really, really hard for me really hard and it makes me feel really hurt and really angry inside to do that when I am able to not react. I have noticed it does kind of come a lot of things down like
bonnie: The calming is kind of contagious. It does kind of, you know, like, help him.
bonnie: De escalate to because you know there's no reaction. There's no kind of there's no we're not having any
bonnie: Yeah, it doesn't escalate it kind of peters out you know there's a more calming influence and you know I think maybe one thing I feel
bonnie: If I don't, I think there's a part of me. It's funny. I'm just realizing this now. I think there's a part of me that feels like if I don't respond. I'm not standing up for myself.
bonnie: And that really bothers me.
bonnie: Well,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so
bonnie: I'm not taking shit now. I took it. You know, it's like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, you also think about what you just said about your mom to when she
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Didn't respond and you know you felt like you weren't being protected.
bonnie: Yeah, only
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, there's a direct connection on why you think it's so important for you to give that instantaneous
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know yeah reaction. It's a reaction. It's not a
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: response, the response is
bonnie: Writing thought through.
bonnie: Right, right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so there's that. There's that connection to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know your parents, but again, really telling yourself. I need to do this different
bonnie: I need to do. Yeah, but then
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: My parents did I want the outcome that I want is not a war or a fight.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and I'm hurt right now or
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm afraid right now. And so, you know, and really even voicing that
bonnie: At that now.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And just saying, look, I'm, I'm really starting to get to feel my emotions stirring and I need to step back for a few minutes.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Take a few breaths and come back out this later tonight, you know, let's let's stop this right now and let's come back in an hour and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and discuss it for a resolution and not engaged in the warfare, because that just a lot of things when things are said they can't be taken back.
bonnie: I know, I know. And I even violently. You know, I have certain rules like, you know, LET ME BECAUSE WE'VE WORKED ON THIS LIKE IT'S NOT LIKE THESE ISSUES weren't
bonnie: Present when we in the beginning of our relationship and but we did do some work on them and like
bonnie: You know certain things like you know we first met, you know, we would say that, you know, say things like, you know, bring up divorce or things like just as a threat, you know, or something.
bonnie: And things like that, you know, we talked about how hurtful. That like we've kind of, you know,
bonnie: Eliminated things that are sensitive to each other like cursing or, or, you know, things that are inflammatory right things that are very hurtful and that you can't take back in, or just not you know
bonnie: Useful and and they're not true. They're not things that were intending to say or do you know so you know am, but I think with kids. It's just really, you know, you kind of some of the groundwork. I feel like you regress a little bit, just because
bonnie: There's, it's so hard to have that time you're being more triggered with kids. I think it's
bonnie: Like, I don't think I was really prepared for that. To tell you the truth. Like, I thought I had done so much work on myself.
bonnie: And you know, we had done a lot of work together, just in terms of like I felt we had a good we kind of work through some of these things. I felt like we had good communication.
bonnie: Not perfect, but, you know, definitely. I felt, you know, and then like kids just just like pouring gasoline like
bonnie: You know, it just, it brought up so much stuff from my past and just this you know I'm so triggered because I'm like constantly kind of judging my parenting and feeling like, yeah, I don't want to be. I want to be much better, not just a little better.
bonnie: Than the parents I, you know, and they meant well i'm not saying anything bad. I mean, they did the best they
bonnie: Could obviously but you know I'm just like, I want to do things much more conscious way and like model and I'm so disappointed. I think there's like this double thing going on. Like when
bonnie: I'm both, you know, of course I'm upset because, you know, we say things you can't take back or, you know, it's just not the way I want to be relating but then also on top of that. I'm like,
bonnie: You know, then I feel bad about myself for like not modeling good behavior. You know, like I don't want my kids to feel the way I did with my parents arguing all the time like
bonnie: Yeah. And then that just makes me feel worse.
bonnie: No. And so it's like it's tough, you know, and
bonnie: Yeah, it brings it just having kids brought up a lot of my childhood in a different way. Every like I thought I had dealt with it as a single person I had dealt with it.
bonnie: And I dealt with a lot of my feelings and I definitely did do that work. But having kids just kind of brings it up in a different way because
bonnie: You know, I think in my own therapy when I was young adult. It was like I was processing feeling like the victim, you know,
bonnie: And now it's like, well, I'm not the victim out and I'm also want to place a responsibility to do something different. So it's a different it triggers me differently than it used to.
Sure.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Sure. And you know again knowing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When you get to that place or when you see that plays coming you know be
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To stand back and say,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Alright, stop it. What do I want from this right now. You know, do I want to battle or do I want things to you know be okay and communicate
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's a piece of effective communication is just stepping back in it and you know statements like you always and you never and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know all about us. You got to take the you out of it and say, I feel
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right, this is what where I'm at with this and when you're heated and you're acting out of that frustration and anger PS. It's almost like all of that is just like sitting back here and not. Yeah.
bonnie: Well, I think what frustrates me like where I get especially triggered is I feel like I I typically do a good job of saying like how, like, I feel using I statements, you know, using some of the things I've learned
bonnie: But where I get really triggered is you know when I'm hearing you you you are like he's not using it. I'm like, Why the hell should I then I just kind of lose and like, you know, like I said,
bonnie: It's like, why should I be trying to communicate in a different way, you know, or and that's not obviously the best way to think about it and
bonnie: Certainly, my husband doesn't have all the therapy experience and like learning about all these things that I have. So I understand that works sometimes coming from two different you know perspectives. You know, like I have a lot of
bonnie: Kind of, you know, benefit of information that you know I try to share with them and we just have to he's just not as practiced at knowing about it as I. Amen. But it doesn't mean I can always do it because definitely when he's not doing it. Then I feel like I shouldn't have to do it again.
bonnie: Which isn't helpful. I mean, bottom line is it effective or not effective. It's not effective and
bonnie: I think it helps to I do help. I think it helps to think of
bonnie: Like when I think about things I've told done and couples work is like, or things that concepts. I've come across as like
bonnie: You know, is it effective I think to me that really helped me get out of like the right or wrong is like it doesn't matter if I'm right or wrong.
bonnie: It's not effective. It's just not effective, you know, and the goal is, like you said, What do I want from this you know I want effective communication and how can I best get it and
bonnie: You know, it is hard to throw, especially the right or wrong, out of the picture when he reveals like you know it's Rehman, you know, certainly the triggers are familiar to me from when I was younger, like some of the like criticism is a big one for me or
bonnie: You know, feeling like someone is avoiding responsibility is a big, big one for me.
bonnie: So this would be certain hot buttons are definitely things. My dad did and
bonnie: So like you know it's it's hard and it's hard because it's such a knee jerk reaction and then
bonnie: You know, but I definitely hear that piece around just even just just inserting that stop sign and and what do I want from this and just realizing that
bonnie: There's never, I think it's helpful for me to remember there's never a time to discuss it. When we're activated. I just know from experience, we're not able to do that at this point.
bonnie: And so there's nothing. You know, I didn't. I think naming yeah and naming it helps it's I think it's it'll
bonnie: It's very hard for me to hold that feeling when I feel so distressed and so sad and angry, but I can't do anything about it. And that moment that feels, you know, and getting over the part that
bonnie: That's not like
bonnie: Like I am still standing up for myself like getting over that piece because I think there is still a lot of hurt there that I felt like, you know, like, you know, I would never live someone talk to my kids, the way that my father used to talk to me. I just cannot. I like I refuse.
bonnie: I will leave over something like you know if that were, you know, chronic. I know.
bonnie: So it is it is a hot button for me. And so, like, you know, it's really hard for me to feel like I'm not, but I have to remember, that's not the same as fighting
bonnie: You know, fighting is not standing up for myself, either.
bonnie: Actually, you know, and maybe it's kind of just, I need to just kind of think of it from a different angles actually standing up for myself is seeking effective communication.
bonnie: Yeah, and and stopping in the moment that is standing up for myself at or, you know, thinking through the situation. I mean, I know it doesn't help to have two people modeling what you shouldn't do in this situation so
bonnie: And that's why when there's one person that's not engaging in that role when you sit back and you stop engaging in that and identify it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It then allows the other person to get off that defense to
bonnie: Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right. You know what I mean. Because when you go into war you go into an argument. It's like both people are in that defense mode.
bonnie: Find out like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm going to fight. I'm going to fight.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, I need to be heard.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I need you to understand coming from
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: In reality, you know, they, the other side. They don't hear
bonnie: What you're known
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: They hear you know that they're not perfect.
bonnie: They don't do anything right and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that doesn't work either.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
bonnie: So right it is about stepping back
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And and thinking things through before it comes out of your mouth.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and and again asking yourself, what do I want out of this.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What outcome. Do I want
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, I want a resolution, I want to find the solution for those. I don't
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Be in a war and put more cracks in in a solid foundation. I want it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I want to be able to work together.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and you know, and then taking a look at the piece that says, what's my part.
bonnie: Yeah. Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And I do differently.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Mm hmm. You know, and it doesn't regardless. You know what the other person is doing really
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You have no control over him, you have to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Drive, you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right, right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so just acting in in a manner that helps you get to their resolve.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And the solution at the end and war.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just doesn't do it you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, just doesn't do it.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I mean, they're going to be things that are said that you got to just like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Bite your tongue and
Yeah.
bonnie: It's the biting the tongue. That's been our part. Yeah, exactly. Or, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Definitely, but that's really, you know, a sort of communication.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, passive aggressive doesn't work. Aggressive doesn't work, you know,
bonnie: Right, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And again asking those questions to yourself, what do I want to get out of this.
bonnie: Right. Because when I think about, like, yeah, definitely, like when I you know people I
bonnie: Really am so impressed by even like like when I think of my supervisor or people like you know that
bonnie: In the therapy sphere. When I just see people and I picture. You seem very like this to like just very grounded. Like I picture that
bonnie: I can just tell that you know i i wonder I want to be more grounded. You know, like, in general, and also just like you know
bonnie: I don't want to be as reactive in general, even you know like we talked to even. I mean, luckily, everything's going well with my clients so far and
bonnie: But even like just even when I worry if worries come up about them for some reason or another, like I still want to be able to be grounded and not have it, like, you know, just in all parts of my life I have things not
bonnie: Sometimes I do feel like a fear that, you know, emotions are just going to overtake me you know like sometimes
bonnie: Like it, you know, and
bonnie: I'm better than I used to be in terms of kind of like feeling my feelings and like as they come up. And like, Oh, I'll still journal sometimes or, you know, I have things that you know it works, and certainly like slowing down and like
bonnie: You know, being kind to myself, you know, I feel like I have some tools, but
bonnie: You know, I still I'm still more reactive than I want I'm still an emotion brain more than I wanted it sometimes and I always envy that like when I see people that seem to just be more grounded that just in terms of
bonnie: You know, like
bonnie: seems like no matter what someone would throw at them. They'd be mostly fine, you know, or something like that. I don't know how to explain it, but like
bonnie: Just like not not like not human, but like, but just grounded. You know, like that they can handle things, you know, like I want that. And sometimes I feel like
bonnie: You know, even like with my health scare with like, you know, the biopsy. I mean, I'm sure what it's natural for everyone to have I, you know,
bonnie: No matter how grounded. You are. I mean, I imagine most people would have some response to that, but like, you know, my responses can just feel so extreme. You know, like I feel
bonnie: Like I just and just over little things. I just want to be more less reactive in general. Right.
bonnie: And even, like, yeah, I guess that's what I'm getting at in the room is sometimes, you know, like, yeah, when suicidality came up I become immediately reactive and like you know
bonnie: And I want to be able to step back, even in that moments like that and kind of have enough grounding to kind of think through
bonnie: The situation and kind of process it, you know, and obviously it's not perfect, but I mean, I don't know, just in different aspects, I want to be the cool ahead and the situation.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, I can tell you that I do a lot of totaling
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I do a lot of reflection. I do a lot of asking myself what I want to get out of this. Do I really want to go into war is this really worth the cost
bonnie: Really, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and just really focus inward for a little bit.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I work on calm myself down. I work on looking at things, logically,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And and really dissecting the emotions behind it, because sometimes we can react with emotions that aren't appropriate for the situation.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But, you know, and it took a long time. You know, I can tell you, you know, I can tell you that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, there are several times when I didn't do it perfectly, and you know we're all works in progress.
bonnie: Yeah yeah
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And it's about learning how to deal with things differently, but that for me is the big one. What do I want to get out of us to I want to fight with them or do I want a resolution because I want to be happy. I don't want to be full of ads.
bonnie: Ever began to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Be mad at him all the time. I want to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, I want to figure out, you know, what makes you know makes me happy.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and how can we meet in the middle. You know, what does that really look like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that helps you know and then if I can't control my emotions. I will go sit and cry.
bonnie: Now,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I will go to someplace for me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh yeah patio go take a hot bath, whatever it is, and have that time for me to be able to release.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, and come back down.
bonnie: Yeah yeah
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Definitely being in that that fight or flight mode.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, like this. The. It just doesn't it just the outcome. It doesn't isn't good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's not now what
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right, yeah. Um, and understanding that and knowing that identifying that within yourself when it's going on. I know what's happening. I, you know, I'm afraid, right now.
bonnie: I'm hurt.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right now, and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, that's just how he feels or just what he's doing.
bonnie: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How can I appropriately, you know, stand up for myself.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: In a manner that he's going to hear
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and that's, you know, that's really it. And so, for the most part, I can be grounded. But I can tell you that I can still have struggles
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know to do it because it's something that takes
bonnie: A lot of practice. Yeah, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And then listening to
bonnie: The music. Yeah.
bonnie: Mm hmm.
bonnie: I mean, yeah.
bonnie: Yeah, no. That makes sense. Like, and I think, you know, I realize to like
bonnie: It is a lot about practice like the more you kind of let yourself like slide back into old behaviors and like you keep doing that, then you know the more
bonnie: You know what, the more you get away from practicing it, the more easy it is to kind of slip into just unconscious behaviors, you know, it really does.
bonnie: Take a lot of vigilance and practice to kind of
bonnie: Before it starts becoming your default, I think, and I don't think I've ever gotten to that place, at least not with my partner. I feel like I've done better in life with other people.
But
bonnie: I, you know, it's still not become my default in, you know,
bonnie: My most personal relationships, you know, to kind of approach it from that place. You know, it's obviously easier to do with coworkers or people where you're not as charged or they're not trigger you maybe to the same level.
bonnie: You know, and I think to like was I just going to say there was something he said that made me think of something else too.
bonnie: Oh yeah, and just, I wish I had a, you know, it's, I guess part of practicing is developing like a thicker skin like sometimes I'm just so sensitive
bonnie: To the feelings of others, like it's very hard for me to kind of stay in my bubble, like let's say I'm having a really good day.
bonnie: And then I come home and for whatever reason like he's not in a good mood or he stressed about something like I totally take it on.
bonnie: It like totally changes my mood and like I wish I was better sometimes about just the emotional like the boundaries. I have to kind of be like okay
bonnie: That's where he is, and I'm still where I am. And you know I had a good day or you know whatever you know I want to have a good day, or I have, you know, just trying to
bonnie: Team with clients like you know I'm thinking of this because I've just been i a friend of mine from my program I
bonnie: She was interested in maybe working for my same supervisor and her private practice. And so I was describing her and just how I work with her and she's just a different personality wise and some of the supervisors. I've had in the past and
bonnie: One thing.
bonnie: Retreats thought again. What was it, okay. So the one thing I have to go backwards. Let's see. Sorry, I got distracted.
bonnie: No, I was list I mommy.
bonnie: Year I was listening for things in the house, um,
bonnie: No, but I was, what was it about my supervisor. Oh, just about because one issue that came up and I think it relates to this is like
bonnie: Kind of how you know I was kind of being missing things with clients because
bonnie: You know, I was thinking they were opening up and that we were developing rapport and that that meant something good was happening, but yet I would find out these things like either they were going to drop out of therapy or
bonnie: You know, with a different client like they weren't going to school and I had no idea like that. They just stopped going to school and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I was like, how did how did
bonnie: I not know these things and
bonnie: Kind of where we were working together with what was maybe going on in the room or the dynamic, you know, I realized like, you know, she kind of challenged me around being aware of that where I am as an intern. I'm still very like
bonnie: You know I'm it's a little insecure about my, you know, abilities, and where I am and that sometimes maybe I want to be liked and I think that that was very eye opening for me or like my way of engaging as
bonnie: You know, wanting to be liked, rather than kind of seeing what was kind of what the relationship was was like, are you know
bonnie: Right. And she was pointing out, you know, I don't necessarily care for my clients like me. That's not, you know, and it just was kind of eye opening in a way that I think I did learn kind of a style of
bonnie: Relating socially, kind of like my mom in in that, you know, I felt she was very meshing so I can kind of fall into that space very yummy.
bonnie: And I, it just was like a light bulb. I was like, wow, you know, like, and that's how I was missing. I feel like I was kind of
bonnie: Unconsciously they were kind of replicating with me other relationships in their life, and I was kind of
bonnie: Unintentionally playing into it because I thought that, like, oh, they're sharing a lot with me like this is good and I didn't really realize well
bonnie: Not like just a question that you know we didn't know each other very long. And yet, I don't know. Like it just was very eye opening for me in terms of looking at my own anxiety and how that plays out and just realizing that
bonnie: You know,
bonnie: I wish I had better like I wish I could be like, I don't care if they like me or not.
bonnie: You know, and sometimes it's still hard just with people in general or just like I guess what I'm saying is just those boundaries, not to take it on like people are
bonnie: Where they are, and either they like me or they don't. And that's fine. And you know, on some level, I do feel that way but i i see how I can kind of get reactive to things, you know, or take things personally, you know, like I
bonnie: Said, I remember like that was something really valuable when I was doing more 12 step work. Many years ago, is kind of just learning about like don't take things personally, you know, like
bonnie: Don't make up stories. Don't make assumptions about people's behavior and like that it's directed toward year has anything to do with you and
bonnie: You know, just some of those basic things. Sometimes I still forget or I fall into and
bonnie: So going back to not wanting to be reactive. I also like a goal for myself would be to be more just confident in who I am, I guess, and in all areas of my life and
bonnie: Sure, not be as affected by other people.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And if that can be, you know, I can tell you that that is really, really hard and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I know that even for me now when I'm working with.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: With a client that has is really struggling
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, I go to any lengths, you know, to help them.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And it's, it's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The one thing about, you know, being a therapist is that we
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: At the end of the day, we're not just holding our own stuff, but we're
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Actually holding
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Our clients stuff too. Right, right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And trying to learn how to shed that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And leave it exactly where it is because it's not ours to hold
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, can be tough.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, especially when you've got one that you know is really emotional and some of the
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Things that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, they're experiencing you've experienced you know that in fact
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, it can be tough.
bonnie: But
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know when you keep in the forefront of your mind. The idea is to teach this person.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The skills that they need.
bonnie: Right.
bonnie: You know what I mean to move forward in themselves. Exactly.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To help
bonnie: Move forward. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you apply that and you start applying that, you know, then you're able to most of the time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Separated and if there's a question for me when I all go straight to my supervisor and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Say this is the scenario. What do you think, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Unfortunately, my supervisor has a good way of throwing it back on my lap and saying,
bonnie: What do you mean
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you think about it, and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Think about it for a few days and then let's talk about it and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Which really has helped me stop and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Think about the situation and then address it. You know, if I if I still am struggling with it, then I'm like, I can't do it. You know, I can't see how I can do it. And I just would rather this person, you know, work with somebody that has the abilities.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so just being self aware
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Of it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Really being self aware and paying attention to you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Paying attention to when those feelings are rising a lot of a lot of self talk
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A lot of control self talk for your emotions, really, really help. Why am I feeling this way right now. I can do this. Just breathe through it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We. I don't know if we talked about deep breathing, but I can tell you what that certainly helped
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hmm, you know, taking in deep breaths.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: From your abdomen, not from your chest.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Breathing in from your nose and blowing it out, you know, through your mouth and doing that for five and six times until you feel it releasing from your body.
bonnie: Yeah, I need to practice that. I mean, I do notice and it's connected
bonnie: Like when I'm having a lot of anxiety, especially I noticed. Like I feel like all my breathing is so shallow like is. So kind of like an eye and, you know,
bonnie: I feel like I yeah I should definitely practice that because, you know, again, it's one of those things that when you do it. It feels good, but if it's not, if you don't practice it, it doesn't become an automatic response. So then, like, you don't
bonnie: Realize it. And the moment you need it. You're by, you know, you kind of
bonnie: Don't remember to do it. Or like, you know, so I realized there's that piece to have, like, you know, practicing these things so that they become more kind of my default instead of
bonnie: Yeah reactivity being my default. And I realized that, you know, that's part of it. I'm so like over
bonnie: Like if I picture kind of my ideal life in a way you know like if if money wasn't an issue or
bonnie: Anything else that you know I would have all this time for like meditation and like, you know, and it's like things have been so busy and so crazy that I realized like slacked off on like self care stuff. I really have and I think
bonnie: That's one thing like that.
bonnie: I wouldn't say I miss it. When I was going through 12 step times it was, you know, I think most of the time what people are there it's it's a desperate time. It's not a fun time. But there's something there was also something very like when you're forced to focus on basics.
bonnie: You know, it really your self care is actually pretty extraordinary. And a lot of ways because like you have to
bonnie: Or, you know, like and and
bonnie: Like I feel like I've kind of gotten to such a place of kind of complacency. We're usually I'm mostly okay you know but then when I'm not okay. I don't have the tools because I haven't been i've been neglecting like things I've learned or just making that space, like I used to really
bonnie: love doing daily readings. I don't know if you know about. Have you guessing you have heard the name melody VAD VAD yeah
bonnie: She does like writing oh you know it already. Yeah, I love her stuff and I have like
bonnie: A book.
bonnie: A book of her like her. Her book was, I guess it was that one was really helpful for me during that time to kind of untangle water my my issues and kind
bonnie: Of like focus on myself in a different way.
bonnie: I was still in therapy. Then, but it's still like you know my therapist was the one to recommend 12 stuff. And for me, it was really. I know people can have different feelings about it, but for me it was really, really helpful and and got me into the, into
bonnie: Like learning about her her stuff. And so, like, you know, I used to read like
bonnie: She has like 365 daily meditations, things like that. And just things I would find just kind of that brought me in contact with, like, you know, I kind of
bonnie: redefine my spirituality, apart from religion. I think when I went through that process. And that was really rewarding for me and I used to have kind of
bonnie: I would make time every day, like you know book ending my day like just all these basic things that I've kind of gotten away from just as like
bonnie: You know, I, I, my time has become so stretched, but then it means I kind of neglecting myself and neglected things that we're working and kind of, I think,
bonnie: And like doing like meditations and things are part of it like deep breathing. You know, when I'm not practicing these things then I kind of have less tools when I need them.
bonnie: slacked off in that department, you know, as I've kind of like my the rest of my life became very stable and normal and, you know, and after years and years of that I felt like I don't I'm okay. And I am mostly okay but
bonnie: When I'm not as okay I kind of, it's not my default to go back to this. So,
bonnie: Right. It's like Maintenance. Maintenance is really important, I think, and I've kind of gotten away from it a bit. But yeah, I kind of, yeah. I used to read like just her things every day would be really helpful.
bonnie: And just I'm trying to think. Other things you know but yeah just things to kind of put me in that space of just kind of like
bonnie: There's a just remembering like
bonnie: For me, it's been helpful. And it's interesting because I never really talked about unless clients have a particular inclination, they told me about toward like spirituality. I don't really bring it up unless they're telling you something. It's helpful for them. And then I say,
bonnie: Encourage that and
bonnie: Because it is helpful for
bonnie: Me just to just to gratitude and, you know, just kind of remembering. You know, like
bonnie: That the challenges that are happening or lessons for me and things that have a greater meaning than just the moment. And I think, you know, I've kind of gotten away from that. But it's still really helpful to go back to
bonnie: Long with these. I think it makes you just more
bonnie: I just cultivates that quiet space that helps you then kind of call upon it and times when you're wanting to be more reactive
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know there
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: There's this other piece to what the way that I initially were was taught was going through my own therapy.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And the
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I love this woman. She turned out to be, you know, my mentor for a
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Long time and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It was just, she was just amazing. She taught me so much it once I got into the education piece of becoming a therapist. I started recognizing the tools, the things that she was
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Holding up you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right interviewing skills. See, we do.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But one of the things that she told me is
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Tomorrow, when you drive to work.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Don't listen to the radio.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But really pay attention to your surroundings.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Pay attention to where your feelings are pay attention to what you see use all your senses.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Pay attention to what you're feeling what you're smelling and what you're hearing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And stay out of your head.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So often times we go on autopilot.
bonnie: Right, exactly.
bonnie: YOU JUST GO WE JUST GO WE JUST DO WE JUST DO. Yep. And I never I
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: never realized
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How much autopilot eating really goes on.
bonnie: Yeah, totally.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know until you stop for a second. You start paying attention to this at this is something really good for anxiety to something. Pay attention to your drive pay attention to the scenery. What you're smelling what you're hearing
bonnie: And repeat it to yourself and your head. You can even do it when you're doing dishes.
bonnie: And yeah, right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right. You know what I mean. But really,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Bringing yourself into the present moment.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, because we lose so many of them being on
bonnie: All totally
bonnie: Yeah, totally.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: By the end of the day, it's like, Wait, what happened.
bonnie: I haven't really or even like I think about times like with my anxiety like
bonnie: Times. I'm with my kids. I'll be worrying about like someday. It's just crazy where my mind goes I'll be worrying about dying someday.
bonnie: And then how sad it will be that I'm won't be with them, like right here and I'm missing this moment where I'm like,
bonnie: Worrying about that and not like thinking about like they're right here. Like right now, like I can just enjoy them. How about that, you know, it's just like, it's funny how the mind is like kind of can definitely be a runaway train and
bonnie: Yeah, like building more of those moments I you know I definitely have to practice. And it's funny because I encourage people to do that. I totally don't do it and
bonnie: You know, I think it yeah what really helped me a lot. I think it is just getting in the habit, you know, getting in the habit of doing those things.
bonnie: That I definitely, yeah. Work on
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: They're just simple things, but
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know that they work.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Ya know, and even in recovery, we're taught to go back to the basics.
bonnie: Yeah, totally. Yeah, I'm hungry. Angry lonely tired. Where are you fed your shell food today. Have you done
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any of water are you getting enough sleep, you know what I mean, and just really honing in on that piece which is another part of emotion regulation.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Ya know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: If we're not taking care of ourselves and then it's easy to react.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To things because we're agitated when
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We're hungry. If
bonnie: We sleep. The biggest big trigger for me. Yeah, when I don't get enough sleep.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so just really, you know, paying attention to the basic things and you know when you find yourself starting when those emotions start bubbling and you are getting ready to go into defense mode. Stop.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That remember you stop sign.
bonnie: Yeah.
bonnie: Well, and that's one thing to like I wish I could
bonnie: I want to get better at is like sometimes it'll, you know, it's so funny because like I'm so used to focusing on patterns, you know, in terms of
bonnie: Clients lives and themes and blah, blah, blah. And in my own life. Like sometimes when these situations come up where I become really reactive. They feel like they come out of the blue.
bonnie: When I realized they're not like there's a definite pattern. Like if
bonnie: You know, my partner start saying, certain things or has a certain tone of voice like I know I'm going to be triggered. It's not. It's not.
bonnie: It's not an if it's a when and yet somehow they always catch me by surprise. So I think like, and to my reaction like
bonnie: You know, I want to maybe pay attention more, I have to work on paying attention more to like why it didn't come out of the blue. Well, catching it sooner is like I need to kind of notice what's happening right before that happens. So I can
bonnie: Kind of that. Exactly.
bonnie: Right. Yeah. Because I think that's what worked with my anxiety. I wonder if that's what worked with the stop sign is because I was doing them in moments when I wasn't already. I was maybe like a three or four out of 10 not an eight.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
bonnie: You know, and so I was able to come right back pretty easily. You know, like just remembering that and that really helped. And I was able to kind of get back down. So you know that that's finding the time like catching catching things hitting
bonnie: The beginning, yeah, knowing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: In the beginning, in the very beginning before it escalates to the point of no return.
bonnie: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And again, that's just, that's where that stop sign comes in, but it also is where your turtle needs to come into
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, at the very beginning when you start feeling those emotions starting to turn up.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, stop and take a step back and just say, you know, I need to take a few minutes before we go into this discussion.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, and, you know, you know, can we please get back together, you know, and come back to this situation in an hour or two hours by itself, time to process it. Give your time self time to think about what you want the outcome to be
bonnie: Yeah yeah
bonnie: Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That just kind of gives you, you know, a few minutes to get to de escalate.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Into that wise mind because you don't want to be completely logical, but you don't want to be reacting out of your emotions.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And just really saying
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, what do I want to get out of this.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, what's the outcome. I don't invite
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Him. I don't want you know these are the things that I don't want, what do I do want
bonnie: Out of it. Hmm.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I want to feel heard, I want you know to have the situation change what's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The best way for that to happen. Yeah.
bonnie: And I think sometimes part of that for me is like, I know I need to simplify. Like, I'm just realizing now as you're saying this, what I'm thinking about is like
bonnie: You know, would help me to have those moments to so I don't. I know I can be a little overwhelming. Because, like, you know, I can't talk to my husband is exactly the same way. I talked to a therapist because it's like overwhelming.
bonnie: If I'm like, you know, going through this made me feel this way and this made me feel this
bonnie: I felt this way. Because of this, and it's just like sometimes like I think sometimes and I don't know if it's a male, female thing too, but like sometimes simplicity
bonnie: Like it, you know, I don't need to share every emotion. What triggered me like because, you know, especially if I know wasn't intentional, you know,
bonnie: Like picking and choosing your battles of what you react to and like again going back to what do I want to change or like, what, what will be helpful, you know,
bonnie: Need to share, every feeling I had in that moment, maybe, maybe not as long as I processed it and I know what it means. I mean, if it's significant. If it keeps coming up, that's one thing but like I know sometimes
bonnie: You know, I can you know certainly be because I am a obviously I like processing things and are drawn to this world and you know like and but not everybody's a therapist, so they don't necessarily, you know, it can, I think, be overwhelming sometimes
bonnie: To go through everything. You know, it's like kind of keeping it simple to what are the things I really want to focus on
bonnie: Because if it's too much, then
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You overwhelm some and then they
bonnie: Use them anyways but we're also making sure that you're bringing positivity to the tables. Yeah.
bonnie: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's a piece of it. Yeah.
bonnie: Yeah, I see that. And that's where I have to be careful not just talking about the things I want to change, but the things that are going well and I know I have that kind of
bonnie: You know, a strength based versus like problem based problem.
bonnie: Yeah, you know, like, it's so in my nature to kind of think about what is the problem and how do we fix it, you know, instead of also thinking about, like, you know, what's going well and what are the exceptions to the problem. What are the times that when
bonnie: You know, maybe some solution focus, you know, well this. I like the way it went this day when it didn't go that way. And it was great. I know we were going there and then we didn't
bonnie: Have a file, you know, we, you know, and it's sometimes I have to remember that I don't always share the positive sometimes
bonnie: At least. Yeah, I didn't those moments.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I don't think a lot of people. I don't really think a lot of people do, because we're on that defensive. And so, yeah, trying to figure out what's positive about, you know, your moment.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, but really if you say, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You go through that list in your head. All right, let's focus and it's a basic a mini gratitude list. You know, I
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Have over my head athlete in my mouth. My children are good. Yeah. You know, I have a great partner you know i i am learning how to communicate.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do I want to get out of this situation.
bonnie: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And just doing that self chicken with
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yourself, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, where do I want to be. Where is n. If you know if, again, there's that other piece to of choosing your battles.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Now, like, how is this going to matter in another
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Five days, five minutes or five years. Yeah. Right. Right. So, you know, really honing in the ones that are
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Unimportant but really learning how to regulate your emotions for the ones that are, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That you need to be here. You know her.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And again, it takes practice.
bonnie: So, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You use her stop sign when you when you first stop.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, start feeling that just regular you know that emotion turning
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That happens in the very beginning.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Use it right then.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, just say I need to step away from this working
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Give yourself permission to do it. Give him permission to to go and process his stuff too.
bonnie: Yeah. Mm hmm.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And then come back at a later time where you can talk about it in that wise mind and not not emotional mind.
bonnie: Mm hmm. Yeah, I would love that. I mean, I would feel a lot better. And then I feel
bonnie: Pretty, pretty positive about myself. It wouldn't make me feel bad, or like, you know, I wouldn't have this double edge where then I feel ashamed of acting out. You know what I mean.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Or those are the consequences of
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah reactions.
bonnie: Yeah, totally.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Consequences to responding are two totally different things.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, you know, and so, realizing that piece, too, is like, I don't want to feel guilty. I don't want to, you know, feel bad about myself when this is over with.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, I certainly want to get that resolution piece.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's really like you know way in it all out and what it really looks
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Like allows you to get and stay in that white find area.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Mm hmm. And it takes practice.
bonnie: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just got to practice it, you know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Mm hmm. Okay, so I want to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Close our session.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I hope your baby feels
bonnie: Thank you. Thanks so much, and I hope you have a great week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You too. Okay, so you got some things to work on this one.
bonnie: I certainly do. I will definitely do my best.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And, pick up, pick up your books.
bonnie: Yeah, that's true. I still have my by my bed. So I will
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Pick it up and read it once in a while. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Is it just for me. She helped this book, the language of letting go.
bonnie: Oh, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Center.
bonnie: I get sad. Me too.
bonnie: Me too. She's very centering yeah for sure. Yeah.
Definitely
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I will
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Talk to you next week. Have a great week.
bonnie: And I'll be looking forward to hearing how it goes. This week, okay.
bonnie: Thank you so much. Have a great night.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, you do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: My bye
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, hello there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: sorry about the confusion and time.
Matt Huss III: No, no problem. Yeah, I thought I was early. I thought I was late. And then I found out I was early
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, I have. You set for a seven o'clock. My Time and again, you know, it's, I'm probably the one that just completely mess it up because for some reason you know the difference in time, you're, you're in New Mexico right
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, that one hour time difference. It sounds so simple but for some reason for me it feels so complicated. I don't you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so
Matt Huss III: Are you in California area or further
Matt Huss III: Oh, okay. So that's why I'm an hour ahead.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, so I had to you for seven o'clock, which was actually seven o'clock, you know, eight o'clock. Your time seven o'clock, my time.
But
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Anyways, how are things going. I haven't seen you in a while, how are you
Matt Huss III: Good, I'm
Matt Huss III: Same as last time, nothing has really changed just I'm
Matt Huss III: Really
Matt Huss III: Busy with
Matt Huss III: School
Matt Huss III: Stressed out
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Where's it coming from
Matt Huss III: Coming from
Matt Huss III: Switching over sorry I have medication with my mouth.
Matt Huss III: Coming from a state college or community college
Matt Huss III: To a university.
Matt Huss III: And then being in all these like
Matt Huss III: 405 hundred classes.
Matt Huss III: That I've never had to take
Matt Huss III: And it's just how much is required of you for like reading and writing outside of class.
Yeah.
Matt Huss III: I am. I'm just not used to that.
Matt Huss III: I'm
Matt Huss III: Not used to
Matt Huss III: Being the smartest one in the classroom.
Matt Huss III: Like always. I've been I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How are you managing it.
Matt Huss III: Not too well I'm procrastinating.
Matt Huss III: A lot more than I used to.
Matt Huss III: Because
Matt Huss III: I don't know. It's like, yeah, it's like I'm so, so, so
Matt Huss III: Worried about how good a paper is going to be or
Matt Huss III: I'm
Matt Huss III: Like last time I always knew whatever I wrote would be would get an A, and I'd be fine. And now it's like, I don't know.
Matt Huss III: Yeah, I'm worried about how well, everything is I'm so worried. This time that it's making me procrastinate. Even worse, and
Matt Huss III: waiting till the night before to write the paper, which makes it even worse, you know,
Matt Huss III: I don't know. Oh.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So really stepping back and and planning it out, you know, you got to pay for do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But planning it out and giving yourself blocks of time to work on it a little bit at a time and again breaking it down to bite sized pieces.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right, because oftentimes things like you know they can be overwhelming causes anxiety, stress.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And, you know, especially when you're in school.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: God, do I still remember that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And it's really about stepping back and saying, Okay, I'm going to work on this on my paper that's. Do you know Sunday. I know what to do. It's coming up due on Friday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So I'm going to give myself, you know, a couple hours today. A couple you know couple hours Wednesday, maybe Sunday. You'll you know you are Monday, you can, you know, read the material and write down some notes, you know, come back at it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A day later, and write your first or second paragraph, but really breaking it down, breaking it down into bite sized pieces.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you don't feel overwhelmed. Wow.
Matt Huss III: I used to be a much better at it, actually, um,
Matt Huss III: So I don't know what
Matt Huss III: What some changed.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, how long have you been in school.
Matt Huss III: Well, I've been since I've come back.
Yeah.
Matt Huss III: I took a semester in January.
Matt Huss III: And actually that was it until
Matt Huss III: This semester. So January took a semester at a Community College or State College.
Matt Huss III: And this is my first semester at a university.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How much all together.
Matt Huss III: Oh, all together. Oh god.
Matt Huss III: I've been in and out of college for the last
Matt Huss III: I can say it's probably it's probably taken me like
Matt Huss III: You know, for every
Matt Huss III: two semesters. I probably have a semester that I dropped out of them had to quit.
Matt Huss III: And then go without further than, you know, work for a year or two. There was a big period where I didn't go to school.
Matt Huss III: until just now, but before that.
Matt Huss III: You know I
Matt Huss III: Probably four years probably four to five total years of education, but it took me probably eight or 10 years to get that much done.
Matt Huss III: Because I was constantly in and out of it or screwing up or, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you think about the length of time that you're in school. You know, we get to a point where we become complacent, we get to a place where we are.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Drained tired.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know, when you look at
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The papers they feel enormous
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and putting it off and putting it off putting it off, you know, end up being a priority and that plays a big piece in it you know the length that you've been in school.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And the struggles in between.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But also
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Feeling overwhelmed with what you're doing now. So really it's about taking it back to basics, taking it back to bite sized pieces. Giving yourself, you know, these, these boundaries in these times that you set aside to finish you know to do your paper and complete it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And making sure that you're eating, you know, you're putting healthy food in your body that you're getting enough rest that you are
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, really in the right mindset to be able to start the process of studying
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And really keeping it at the eye on the prize, you know, is another thing. What's, what's going to be the outcome you know when this is when this is finished.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and really saying I can't wait till I get to that point. And these are baby steps that I need to do to get there, but so it's a lot of self talk. It's a lot of
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Structuring it to where you have the time to put in a little bit at a time on the on your papers and not having to cram it all at the day before, and then
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, not doing such as a good job is what you know that you can do. And then that makes it. That's a spiral because then you feel guilty about it and you know God. I should have done this better, and I should have done that better. Right. Yeah, so it's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I know what to talk about definitely
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But it's just really about breaking it down into simplicity, you know and and doing it a little bit of time giving yourself permission to take breaks
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: giving yourself permission to sit down and eat a good meal and watch a TV show. And you know what I mean, being able to check out of what you're learning
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And helps us to be able to come out come out with a fresh mind, be able to get more accomplished, be able to do our best. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And because it's it's hard. I don't care what anybody says. It is tough in school and you know when you're getting to a point where where you've been in and out of school for so long that wears plays its own wear and tear on you, you know, and so you have to remember that piece to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How long until you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Meet your goal.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Graduating
Matt Huss III: If I stayed in school straight through.
Matt Huss III: It could take four to six years, probably because I'm
Matt Huss III: It's like right before my bachelor's and then you know that's not too far off.
Matt Huss III: But then
Matt Huss III: But a masters and then who knows how long it takes to get a PhD, so
Matt Huss III: Yeah, and then I'll probably procrastinate my both of my thesis is
Matt Huss III: Forever, so we'll see.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, you got it. Okay. So get rid of that mindset. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, because that sabotaging yourself at the end. Right, but
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Really giving yourself, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The discipline that you need to say I need to finish this course right I need to really dedicate some time to this to this course so they can get, get it over with and and really structuring your weekly time to be able to give yourself enough time to give it your all you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And it sucks because sometimes we feel stuck. Sometimes it's it's tough. It might be a subject that you just have no interest in
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But the moment that you give yourself permission to break it down into small bites. It's easier to get them done. You know, you get yourself in a rhythm, you get yourself in this whole new routine.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Before you know it, the papers are getting done. They're getting done with your hundred percent
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're not procrastinating.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know you're doing what you're supposed to be doing.
Matt Huss III: I've always been bad with the routine. I've always wanted constantly want to create a routine for myself, but I've never been able to stick to one.
Matt Huss III: Yeah, that's been a lifetime thing for a long time, or I'm constantly trying to make a schedule and this never stick to it. I
Matt Huss III: Don't know why.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And why you don't know why.
Matt Huss III: I know I
Matt Huss III: Yeah, I mean, the first time. I'm like, Well, I just don't feel like this right now. So I'll put it off and then all of a sudden the whole schedule goes, I don't know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And it takes. I'm telling you, it takes a lot of perseverance. It takes a lot of fighting with yourself and to just do it. You think about if you had
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A dog or a cat or if you had even as a child, a small child. Do you think about
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know how many times you know, parents don't want to, you know, or pet owners don't want to take the dog out because it's freezing rain outside it's cold.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But you still get up and you do it anyways because it's something that you need to do right
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, parents with small kids they, you know, I'm sure. Well, I know from experience. You don't want to get up at two, two and three and four in the morning, but it's some it's a necessity. It's something that you have to do.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you've got to get into that mindset to get yourself out of be of procrastinating.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and saying this is I have to do this. I have to do this. I need to build a schedule and stick to it, no matter what. And that's the hard part is is when you we give ourselves permission to walk over the no matter what it all goes right we're right back to procrastinating.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But if you are really, you know, if you can just set those boundaries with yourself and say, I have to stick to this, I have to stick to this.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you're not going to always do it perfect, but the great part about it is you get to pick up and start again. You know when you don't do it. Perfect. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so, remembering that to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That it's going to take it just takes a lot of work and perseverance.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And self discipline you know anything, whether or not you can also, you know, throw remarks in your head. Like, how long do I want to be in school for
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: At what point do I not want this to be over, you know, and really give yourself that self talk that allows you to become motivated to get this done.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and I can just tell you from my own personal experience that I had to do that several times and you know procrastinating on a paper to the last minute.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Several times and that causes anxiety and frustration and and you know worry and and it just doesn't have the outcome that we would hope you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's gonna take some work. It's gonna take some work on your side.
You know,
Matt Huss III: It's
Matt Huss III: Yeah, I'm sorry it's it's it's late for me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's okay.
Matt Huss III: Tired.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A lot to digest, you know,
Matt Huss III: I'm always fighting on myself, you know, eat from the beginning of the day. I have to fight with myself to get out of bed and then, you know, to take a shower to
Matt Huss III: Every little thing is like a battle in my head.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But you're doing it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The right
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Remember that you might have a battle going on here. And inside your head to accomplish these basic things, but you're doing it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You have to remember that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I know I have to fight with myself to get out of bed. But guess what I am getting out of bed.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And guess what, it's tough, but I am doing these things.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and recognizing you know that you are, you know, not focusing on the things that that you feel you're falling short on but really focusing on the things that you are doing, you know, helps us bring up our motivation, a little bit more
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes sense.
Matt Huss III: Yeah. Yeah, it's true.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's just getting getting back down to that basic piece you know i know i you know I'm struggling with doing this right now, but I have to do it anyways have to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And just come into that point. You know what I mean. Um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Are you on depression medicine. Yeah.
Matt Huss III: Very high dose of like the highest those possible effects are and
Matt Huss III: Well you trend supposed to help it.
Matt Huss III: Yes, and anxiety medication as well.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And do you think that they're working
Matt Huss III: File. I mean, and they work compared to the places I've been at in my mind, you know, I'm still
Matt Huss III: Going right now and I'm not stuck in the bed for days on end, but
Matt Huss III: Yeah, maybe.
Matt Huss III: I might ask, try something else. Because Lately it's been
Matt Huss III: It hasn't been as easy to do things as it was
Matt Huss III: Before
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And don't forget that the medication, you know, it helps. But there's also that whole piece that you have to have to dedicate to it to, you know, and again, paying attention to what you're eating paying attention that you're getting enough sleep.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And paying attention to how you're taking care of yourself. You know, that's a vital piece of it too.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When it's sunny out. You know what I mean when you have some being able to be in the sun and get those vitamin D rays and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Even if it's just sitting outside for a little bit and just soaking in the sun.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That also helps with depression.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Tanning booth can help if you're able to get in one with depression.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A red light also helps with depression. I mean, there's several different things that you can use if you can, you know, if you have the option to that can help you with that piece, but certainly talking to the to the doctor and saying,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: This is how I'm feeling.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And I feel like I've kind of step back a few steps, you know, and just addressing that with your doctor to help
Matt Huss III: I did go free. A but
Matt Huss III: The wind chill was so cold that I had to. It was painful. I'm still New Mexico weather. Yeah.
Then in Florida for to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Ah,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What a change
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh my gosh, yeah, I can see that. And, you know, cold weather, a lot of rain a lot of cloudy days.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Can contribute to that depression piece. So, you know, being aware of that, you know, and knowing that that can possibly be playing playing have an effect, you know, having a factor in this whole thing.
Matt Huss III: You know, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But also, again, telling yourself you know i know i don't want to do this, but I'm still doing it. I know I don't want to do this, but I'm still doing it. You know what I mean. Also helps reaffirm that you can do it. You know what I mean I'm just keeping an eye on the prize, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When I went through, you know, my associates my bachelor's and my masters. By the time I got to my master's I was exhausted and I wanted done. I just wanted to be done.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so I found myself trying to take shortcuts and procrastinating and waiting. And what I realized was that when I did that I was not giving it my all and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: My, my school work was suffering and there was a point where I just wanted to give up, but I didn't.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I fought all those things inside my head that tells me it's okay, I can wait till the last minute.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because it's really I don't know how you feel, but I know for me, that if my grade isn't a decent grade I. It makes me feel worse about myself and I start beating myself up.
Matt Huss III: The I yeah I've never gotten the lower than a day so I get pissed off. If I get a beat. So I like I've dropped classes before if i thought i was i was gonna get like
Matt Huss III: Lower than a, like a if I didn't think I was gonna get at least to be I might I'll probably dropped the class, and it's crazy. It's like that black and white.
Matt Huss III: Thinking or something.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: There's also a piece of it and that says that you're trying to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: sell yourself short.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what you're capable of doing better than anybody. And so if
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A course or classes challenging
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean. Then it becomes too hard to do. And so knowing that you're, you know, you're
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're extremely smart. It's a lot better if you can take things that aren't so challenging that you know that you can do.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes sense.
Matt Huss III: I guess, to start off, maybe, but I would I would want to be challenged. Yeah.
Matt Huss III: I enjoy being challenged and stuff. That's the problem. But at the same time. It's like I'm
Matt Huss III: Not putting all my effort in now because
Matt Huss III: It's challenging, it's, it's weird. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's pretty self sabotaging behaviors. That's what those are, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you think that we can do to be able to change, help, help you change that mindset and turn it to a point where
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you recognize what you're doing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You give yourself.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Kudos or pat on the backs and wreck and really talking to yourself about, you know, I know. I don't feel like doing this but I'm doing it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean.
Um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you think that you can you can do to help that process along and become more more less procrastinated for school.
Matt Huss III: I don't know. I mean I have to
Matt Huss III: Set up kind of some kind of schedule but it's
Matt Huss III: It's hard to
Matt Huss III: force myself to write when i don't know i'm not in that in the perfect mind state in our
Matt Huss III: That I feel like writing. If I don't feel like writing that I'm like, I'm not going to write, which is horrible. If you know
Matt Huss III: Especially, you know, finally have if I was given us some an assignment and it's due in two or three days. If I don't happen to feel the way I want. I like to feel when I right then.
Matt Huss III: Then all of a sudden it's like do the next day in its
Matt Huss III: Yeah, I haven't. So how to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Navigate it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So when you know that you have worked on.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And here's just something to try, but when you know you have a paper to writer you have work to do and you're not in the space that you want to be that you feel you need to be to do it sit down with a piece of paper and a tablet and just start writing anything
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Not nothing that pertains to your work or or you know what you're trying to learn, but how you're feeling and what you're thinking. But just start the whole process of doing, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because the idea is that it will help you get into that mindset, a little bit that you feel that you need to be in, in order to start writing
Matt Huss III: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You see what I mean.
Matt Huss III: Yeah, no, I'll try.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Definitely, I definitely have several tablets that I just sat down and wrote and wrote and wrote and it helped put me and where I needed to be to be able to start focusing on the work
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Matt Huss III: Some little
Matt Huss III: Bro, yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know it does. It does help.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And again, I'm trying to do it. I know I don't feel like doing it right now, but I'm going to read what it is I need to write about, you know, um, and just giving yourself permission to break it down into smaller pieces digested, a little bit at a time, you know, right, one paragraph at a time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just breaking it back down to to baby steps to spoonfuls instead of mouthfuls or instead of something that feels so big that you don't want to do it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Matt Huss III: I've never. Yeah. And I've never felt so behind either. This is the first time I've actually feel behind because I have two or three more assignments. You know that I've to do
Matt Huss III: That I wish I could have been starting already you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But I'm still working on the first one because I
Matt Huss III: procrastinated it, you know, and it's it's nuts. It's, um, I'm not
Matt Huss III: Used to the yeah how much state.
Matt Huss III: They require you to work at the post grad level because my classes are the post graduate level.
Matt Huss III: So there's me and only a couple other
Matt Huss III: Undergraduate students in the classes.
Matt Huss III: And it's just, I've never experienced
Matt Huss III: And on top of that. I'll take like a short response as question that they asked you to write
Matt Huss III: Over the next few days, and I'll make it like such a big deal out of it like it's a huge paper essay and
Matt Huss III: That'll make me depressed and even longer because I'm taking notes and or, you know, doing research for this stupid little one or two page paper making it into a whole
Matt Huss III: Thing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You got a little bit, uh,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It sounds like procrastination and a little bit of perfectionism.
Matt Huss III: Yeah, and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: In there too. And, you know, a response paper is is simple, as I keep it simple. Keep it simple.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean.
Matt Huss III: I'm figured out how to do this.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's about that mind control, you know, it's about really, you know, controlling learning how because it's not something that you can just change overnight, but
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: just learning how to be able to control that mind you know that mindset, this doesn't have to be a big huge ordeal.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, it's that self talk that you're giving yourself. You're telling yourself these things, this doesn't have to be such a big deal. This can be exactly what they asked for. And it's a repetitive.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: self talk in your head that allows you to keep it, bring it back, back in and keep it at a more simpler level so that you don't get so you know stressed out over it and it doesn't turn into something that's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's big or huge you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When I was going to school. We called it, we had to respond.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To message stream or about the topic and had to be so many words and had to have so many things in the content and overthinking it really causes more damage than just letting it flow. That's what I learned the hard way.
Matt Huss III: Yeah, that's what I'm doing to myself.
Yeah.
Matt Huss III: Yeah, because, I mean,
Matt Huss III: I'll have
Matt Huss III: I'll have like three pages of bullet point notes.
Matt Huss III: But no essay for a stupid little
Matt Huss III: Short response thing and it
Is
Matt Huss III: This is driving me nuts because you know they expect you to be able to do it in an hour to, you know, after all, the reading is done so that they can aside, they'll sign a second one. Do you know I have
Matt Huss III: One do tomorrow morning. One do by midnight online tomorrow. And then I have another one do by Monday, you know, and it's just an I haven't and I'm still working on one that
Matt Huss III: I should have gotten done
Matt Huss III: And then beginning of the week.
Matt Huss III: But have worked on the other ones that are coming up, you know,
So,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: They can say some little bit it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Takes a little bit of training to change that mind thought, you know, that mind process. And again, making sure that your self care is at its peak level, you know, making talking to the doctor about your meds will I'm sure will help
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But also what are you doing for self care. What are you doing,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I mean, I tried
Matt Huss III: Tried to go for walks. But that happens, maybe once or twice a week.
Matt Huss III: But
Matt Huss III: A big goal of mine is to get to the gym every day or every other day. Again, like I did at one point in my life and I'm
Matt Huss III: And it's the best I've ever felt my entire life is when I was going to the gym on a regular basis.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Isn't it crazy that the things that are best for us seems to be the most difficult to do.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's definitely true and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I just
Matt Huss III: Too much. That's another thing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're eating too much, as I said,
Matt Huss III: Leaping too much.
Matt Huss III: Sleeping. Yeah. And then only eating like right before bed someone metabolisms not breaking up any food is just turning into fat.
Matt Huss III: In my diet. It's not good in my sleep habits are not good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So that's gotta, you gotta start there. You've got to start there. You've got to hone in and on what you're eating and on your sleep.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, and they always say that it's healthier to eat five meals a day than it is to eat one big one or two big one, you know, put
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Healthy put an apple. You know what I mean in your pocket and set a timer on your phone. You know what I mean. For each for five times throughout the day.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean and eat that apple or banana in your pocket or you know whatever it is that's healthy and I bet you you will begin to start feeling
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A little bit better because your body is going to get you know what it means. And oftentimes will stress, he will will eat more junk food than we do anything else, because it's easy, convenient. We're on the run, you know, hate, too.
Matt Huss III: Many too many frozen foods. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, it's just really taking a look at first you know your diet and adding in some healthiness setting a cap on, what time is too late to eat.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Being aware of that, you know, but it's about bringing it back into you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Bringing everything back into you making you your priority.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Making your, you know, your self care the priority.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know that's what what needs to happen.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because everything else flourishes.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When maps taking care of Matt.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I can tell you that to
Matt Huss III: Better
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Here's a work for me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For the week,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But it's about implementing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Some kind of healthy snacks throughout the day for you.
Matt Huss III: Good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We're just gonna, we're just going to start basic stuff, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Instead of
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A TV dinner, you know, grab some fruit or vegetable something that you like to eat. That's good for you. Good, making sure that you're counting how much water you're putting in your body, a day.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How much water do you drink.
Matt Huss III: Not enough
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Matt Huss III: Soda and energy drinks.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Haha, yeah. Water is going to be in there too. Um, but really honing in to drinking one bottle a day. I mean, that's really, you know, so, because if we said if I say I expect you to drink three bottles of water a day. I'm going to set you up for failure.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just. No way. I mean, I set my own self up in those at, you know, when it comes to water. It's like something that you have to pay attention to every day.
Matt Huss III: So water thing I was was one thing I was doing before.
Matt Huss III: This bout with like within the last like
Matt Huss III: Four months or three, three or four months, I've been before this bout of depression and I had to start fighting with myself to wake up again.
Matt Huss III: And
Matt Huss III: Fighting myself to do everything again but but right before that I was drinking, you know, two or three bottles a day.
Matt Huss III: And yeah and then and then but everything disappeared again when I, you know, because like I said I'll
Matt Huss III: For some reason I get these depression bouts that I'll be fine for a while. But then I'll still once in a while I have about of it and stop doing everything that I've
Matt Huss III: Got myself to do
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And here's the again.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Putting an alarm on your phone. You know what I mean, to remind yourself and you can put one on your phone to say have you drinking your water today.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean and asking yourself, giving yourself those questions. You know, and brings you back to being mindful about what you are doing, because you know when we eat healthy energy drinks and soda.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean. And we're not putting goodness in our bodies to kind of counteract that then that becomes a part of the problem.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So there's the basics.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: There's, there's your assignment for for the week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Is to really implement some healthy different healthy snacks throughout the day.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And drink one bottle of water.
A day
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Simple things that you you know that you should be doing. Anyways, that you know you should be. But it's easier to do. You know, I know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's easier to drink. Red Bull than what it is to go and grab that bottle of water. Sometimes, I mean, I get that or not even really recognizing or identifying that you need water, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, that's a piece of it too, but just getting back to being mindful about Matt.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Which will then help you, you know, and your schoolwork.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That make sense.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, I'm not going to give you too much. You got enough on your plate with their schoolwork, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, I remember all too well. I think I got a little traumatized from it because it felt so overwhelming, but
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's how I knew that I had to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To break it up into little pieces.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I there's a piece of it. The wonders.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How do I explain this. It's hard sometimes to stay focused. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: On the subject that you're doing. And if it's not a subject or you feel, and this is my own personal experience, and you feel like it's too hard. It's easy to find reasons why you don't want to do it right now.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To change that mindset is the sooner that I get it over with the sooner that I get this done.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm done with it, and I don't have to think about it anymore.
Matt Huss III: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's what what kind of helped me stay at the very end when I was dragging my feet being motivated to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, complete
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The work, even though it was a struggle.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you have a couple things now on your plate to take a look at and work on
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you'll meet me back here next Thursday at seven o'clock, my time.
Matt Huss III: Right, only eight o'clock, my time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah. And let me just really fast. Look, Matt and make sure, um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I think we did it this way because of your school like you don't get home, till
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A certain time.
Matt Huss III: Yeah I don't get home until like three or four yeah so
Matt Huss III: We set it up so that it would be like six my time.
Matt Huss III: I don't know if that's possible for you or even said even just like an hour, two hours earlier than eight if we could at all.
Matt Huss III: So if you could do it at your time at like five or six, or even four or five or six your time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For my family. I know, because we have that our different I'm looking right now because I think
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm looking at the 13th.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Six.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so let's go on the 13th.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, four o'clock. My time is three o'clock, your time.
Matt Huss III: No, no, you have that backwards. You're an hour behind me.
Matt Huss III: So it sounds
Matt Huss III: Like they're right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Mm hmm. Yes.
Matt Huss III: Yeah. So yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I mean, that's
Why
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm telling you. Okay, so you're an hour ahead so
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For I want four o'clock.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Four o'clock. I don't have a four o'clock, so we can, which is would be five o'clock, your time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So let's put you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Is that okay
Matt Huss III: Yeah, that'd be great.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Alright, let me get you in there so that I have it set up and there's no question
Matt Huss III: And the 13th is next Thursday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I have to go through a bunch of these things.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Systems.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: spell your last name at the
Matt Huss III: U
Matt Huss III: S as in SAM S as in SAM.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Ma TT er ma ti
Matt Huss III: cutie ma see
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's another piece of it's not exact spelling
Matt Huss III: Oh and ignore the
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh you sent me an email or
Matt Huss III: Yeah, because I couldn't get ahold of anybody at one point, and I thought I was late. So just ignore that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know that if you come across
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Anything during the week, you have my email.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and you know that you want to discuss or things you can send me an email. Are there things that are on your mind that you want to discuss in our sessions.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you don't forget, and then we can
Go.
Matt Huss III: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, so just know that you can do that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I am constantly checking my work email.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay 4pm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Pacific time
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Alright, so I got you in there. I got you scheduled
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And sort of be earlier next week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So I'll be curious to see how you did on these things and just know it's not
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's not like you're going to get punished. It's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Not like you're going to get reprimanded
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, remember that. And this is about focusing in on that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And giving map of things you know the basic things that it's going to make him feel better.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And when do you see the doctor. Next.
Matt Huss III: To my calendar soon.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Matt Huss III: She
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so you make sure that you talk about, you know, your medication and how you're feeling and the struggles that you've been having with her to or him.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because he might have solutions that I don't know anything about you know I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So I'll be hearing about what the doctor said to you next week. And I'll be hearing about how you are working on implementing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, different foods into your day, all day and but also paying attention to yourself talk, Matt. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And remember, you know, keep it simple.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Period.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just keep it simple.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, you can do this have faith in you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so I will see you next week and have a great week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Have a great week. Okay, I will talk to you next week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Bye now.